Is rescuing the hostages
a priority at all?
I mean, Israeli news media, like Haaretz,
they say it doesn't seem like it at all.
And frankly, Jake,
if my kids were being held
hostage in Gaza
and as you know, there are Americans
being held hostage in Gaza right now,
I'd want you
you to send in the Navy SEALs.
What's the conversation
like in the White House about the U.S.
conducting any sort of operations
in order to save Americans
being held hostage in Gaza?
Well, the president has been very clear
that he has no higher priority
than getting Americans
back safe, Americans
who are being held hostage by Hamas.
The Israelis are bombing
the crap out of Gaza.
And I mean,
it doesn't seem like saving
the hostages are a
priority at all right now.
Well, for President Biden,
they are a priority.
They're the highest possible priority.
And he has sent hostage
experts to coordinate
and consult with the Israeli government
on hostage recovery efforts.
He's also made sure that our diplomats
are in touch with third countries
in the region
to explore avenues
for their safe release.
I have to be cautious
about how much I can say
about certain efforts he's undertaking
because we want to protect those efforts
to give us the best possible chance
of getting our people home.
Now, Jake, one
important point
when it comes to the issue of the Navy
SEALs is
we do not at
this point have pinpoint location
information for where
the American hostages are.
So we have to continue
to refine our understanding
of where they are
and even Jake, who they are,
because we know
there are 15 unaccounted for Americans,
but we cannot confirm the precise number
of American hostages
being held by Hamas at this time.
All we can do
is to continue to work
closely with the Israeli government
on hostage recovery options,
which we are doing,
and then work through third countries
to see if there are avenues for release.
Those efforts are underway.
Our hope is that
they can produce results.
We will continue to stay focused on this.
It's as high
a priority as the president has.
One senior political operative
with Hamas floated
the possibility
a few days ago
of a potential prisoner swap
with the U.S.
for the release of hostages
with the U.S.. Entertain that.
We have not looked at that.
We have not heard from them.
Something like that.
That's not something
that is currently under
active discussion.
It has not been proposed.
What we are focused on instead,
as I said before, are pursuing avenues
with third countries for release.
I'm not going to get into the details
of what
that might look like again, to protect
those channels
in hopes that they can bear some fruit.
But I will say that President Biden
has shown over the course
of the past few years
that he will make hard decisions
to get American hostages home.
In this case,
our focus is on working
through those third country channels
and I'll leave it at that for now.
So I think there are
serious reasons to question
how good any intelligence
about what is in Gaza is.
I mean, obviously,
Hamas was able to carry out
this horrific attack eight days ago,
catching everybody completely off guard.
You just said that
we don't know
where the hostages are in Gaza.
And yet the Israelis claim
the IDF claims that it is bombing places
that it knows are Hamas
targets.
How can we be sure that that's true?
I mean, I
Hamas is a terrorist group.
Don't get me wrong.
But how do we know anything about what
they're hitting?
Given the fact
that it doesn't sound
like any of the intelligence inside Gaza
is particularly good?
Well, Jake, Israel has known
where particular parts
of Hamas's terrorist
infrastructure have been located.
They know, for example,
where rockets are fired from
and they can go back to those locations
to take out the rocket emplacements.
They know
from various forms
of intelligence collection
where certain individuals are located,
who are senior commanders in Hamas,
who are part of the bloody
and barbaric attacks
that took place against
Israel last Saturday.
So they do have information
to be able to go after specific targets,
actionable targets,
similar to the way the United States
has been able to do that.
In other places, in other contexts.
The United States has taken a very clear
stand.
It is a stand that we don't just take
in this situation,
but we've taken all along,
which is that
we stand for the rule of law.
We stand for the law of war,
we stand for the protection of civilians.
And we want to make sure
that innocent Palestinians
who have nothing to do with
Hamas, can get to safe areas
where they will be safe from bombardment
and where they will have access
to necessities like food, water,
shelter and medicine.
Well,
I mean, you say you stand
for the rule of law.
Again, Hamas is vile.
What they did eight days ago,
they're targeting civilians.
It's horrific.
But what's going on right now
is not just a punishment of Hamas.
More than 700 children
have been reportedly killed in Gaza.
And obviously,
electricity, food,
water, supplies have been cut off
by Israel to the totality of Gaza.
Obviously,
the blockade is not just by Israel,
it's by Egypt, too.
Take a listen to what Secretary
Blinken said last year
when Putin was targeting
Ukrainian infrastructure,
heat, water.
Electricity
for children,
for the elderly, for the sick.
These are President Putin's new targets.
He's hitting them hard.
This brutalization of Ukraine's.
People is barbaric.
Now, look, Israel is not Russia.
Gaza is not Ukraine.
It's a different situation.
But cutting off supplies,
cutting off heat,
cutting off water to civilians.
What's the difference?
Well, first,
thank you for saying that
Israel is not Russia,
because Israel is not Russia's, but.
Civilians are civilians.
We are civilians to civilians.
Yes, absolutely they are.
And they deserve, as I said
before, access to water
and medicine and food.
And we are working actively
to ensure that that happens.
And I can tell you this morning, Jake,
that I have been in touch
with my Israeli counterparts
just within the last hour
who report to me that they have,
in fact,
turned the water pipe
back on in southern Gaza.
That has been the subject
of discussion
over the course of the past few days.
The United States is going to continue
working with Israel, with the U.N.,
with Egypt, with Jordan,
and with a lot of the groups
on the ground
to make sure
that innocent Palestinians get access
to those basic necessities
and are protected from bombardment
because they deserve that
right, the right to those necessities
and the right to safety and security
every bit
as much as Ukrainian civilians
do or civilians anywhere do.
And the United States hasn't
made any bones about that.
We're working hard on that.
We're working to make sure
that that is the case as this unfolds.
And it's something
that has been a high priority
for President Biden,
for Secretary Blinken, and for myself.
But you're not telling the Israelis
to let the Palestinian
hospitals have power.
Our position is
that hospitals
should be able to function.
Hospitals should not be targeted.
People should be able to get access
to lifesaving medical care.
We don't qualify this statement
if we don't say that
there is some kind of caveat to them.
These are simple, clear,
declarative statements.
It is our position
that's consistent
with the law of armed conflict,
the law of war.
It's consistent with our view
as we have presented it.
And I would just say, Jake, that there's
a lot of reports in the fog of war
about things that happen.
We're not going to respond
to every one of those
because
we will seek clarity
in the appropriate way.
But we will never back off
our basic principles
and our basic proposition,
which we have made both publicly
and privately
about our view
about how civilians have to be protected.
I haven't asked you over the any
the fog of war stories.
I've seen stories
that blame Israel
for things that later on it
turns out Hamas did them.
I get it. I understand.
But we have reports
and I'm sure you have them, too,
that hundreds of the individuals
stuck in Gaza are American citizens.
You know that, too.
There are also hundreds of
thousands
of Americans in Israel
that are trying to get out also.
And the Biden administration
is doing a lot
to get those individuals out.
29 of the individuals killed
by Hamas were American.
And there are, I think
what is it like something like
40 Americans that are unaccounted for
who were maybe taken prisoner by Hamas?
But I want to talk to you
about one Palestinian-American woman
we talked to named Janine O'Connell.
She's from New Jersey.
She's got three
kids, eight two and two months.
I sent you the interview
we did with her earlier in the week.
She got to the border,
the Rafah crossing.
She can't get out.
She can't get out of Gaza
because the Egyptians
won't open the crossing.
Listen to what she told
me earlier this week.
We tried to contact the U.S.
embassy so many times.
Unfortunately, they couldn't
tell us at all.
I contacted them through the phone
via email.
I texted and I.
I called different numbers, but nobody
I couldn't hear back from any.
We are all here feeling abandoned
that and we're
feeling that we're left alone.
I don't know how many billions of dollars
we give the Egyptians every year.
Why can't you tell
President Sisi
to open the border, to let Americans out?
We have told
President Sisi to open the border,
to let Americans out.
The situation
there at the crossing
is actually more complicated.
The Egyptians have, in fact, agreed
to allow Americans
to depart to get safe
passage through the Rafah crossing.
The Israelis agreed to ensure
that the area around
there would be safe as at least
as far as they were able to do so.
The question
when we tried to move a group
yesterday was actually Hamas taking steps
to try and stop that from happening.
But we are continuing
to work this around the clock
and we are doing all that we can
to make sure
that American citizens who are in Gaza
can get through that border crossing.
Secretary Blinken, in fact,
is in Egypt today
meeting with the president of Egypt.
This is at the top of his list
to help
get those American citizens out of Gaza.
Anyone on who is a U.S.
citizen should have the right
to free passage through there
and then have the U.S.
government facilitate their travel home.
Yeah, I don't
I don't doubt that the biggest problem
in all of this Escobar's.